source/heroku/about.rst, before:

About
-----

`Heroku <http://www.heroku.com/>`_ is a popular platform-as-a-service provider
that's been around since 2007, providing simplistic web application hosting for
polyglot developers. Heroku supports a wide variety of programming languages,
and just about every web framework you can think of.

What makes Heroku a perfect choice for hosting is that:

- Heroku is built on top of `Amazon Web Services <http://aws.amazon.com/>`_,
  one of the largest cloud providers in the world.

- Heroku doesn't lock you into their platform--they're built using all open
  source tools so you don't have to rewrite your codebase to make things work.

- You use Git to manage your deployments.

- You can instantly provision, resize, and remove any infrastructure components
  you need (stuff like PostgreSQL, Memcached, etc.).

- You can keep your private data decoupled from your code via environment
  variables.

- You can instantly scale your infrastructure up and down to support large
  amounts of traffic.

- You pay for usage only: no monthly fees, contracts, or anything else.

Furthermore--Heroku has a large collection of `addons
<https://addons.heroku.com/>`_ which makes using additional infrastructure
components easy (you can even write your own).

Commit message:

Adding a bit about the Heroku free tier.

source/heroku/about.rst, after:

About
-----

`Heroku <http://www.heroku.com/>`_ is a popular platform-as-a-service provider
that's been around since 2007, providing simplistic web application hosting for
polyglot developers. Heroku supports a wide variety of programming languages,
and just about every web framework you can think of.

What makes Heroku a perfect choice for hosting is that:

- Heroku is built on top of `Amazon Web Services <http://aws.amazon.com/>`_,
  one of the largest cloud providers in the world.

- Heroku doesn't lock you into their platform--they're built using all open
  source tools so you don't have to rewrite your codebase to make things work.

- You use Git to manage your deployments.

- You can instantly provision, resize, and remove any infrastructure components
  you need (stuff like PostgreSQL, Memcached, etc.).

- You can keep your private data decoupled from your code via environment
  variables.

- You can instantly scale your infrastructure up and down to support large
  amounts of traffic.

- You pay for usage only: no monthly fees, contracts, or anything else.

- Heroku has an excellent free tier which makes them ideal for running hobby
  projects.

Furthermore--Heroku has a large collection of `addons
<https://addons.heroku.com/>`_ which makes using additional infrastructure
components easy (you can even write your own).
